% Media and the Message
% Joseph Reagle

# Intro

In the two chapters I asked you to read we see an argument that the meaning of a message is very much determined by the medium.

# McLuhan

Marshal McLuhan is famous for his aphorism that "the medium is the message."

> the personal and social consequences of any medium -- that is, if any extension of ourselves -- results from the new scale that is introduced into our affairs by each extension of ourselves, or by any new technology. [@Mcluhan1995ume, p. 151]

He is also famous for his (sketchy) characterizations of **hot** (easy, passive, single sense, movies; sit back and enjoy fire) and **cool** (effort, participatory, TV & comics; actively rub one's hands together) media.

# Concepts I

medium
:  	an extension of ourselves that influences the meaning of the message; always contextual/relative in that a medium is "always a comparison"; often taken for granted.
remediation
:	Bolter's and Grusin's 1999 book *Remediation*: recently introduced media need to be analyzed along people's use of old media [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 93]
Hypermediation
:	strong impression of mediation.

# Concepts II

uncanny valley
:	somewhere in between
media ideologies
:	"how they understand what one should use a particular medium to accomplish"
stage
:	Goffman's "The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life"

# Gershon Questions

# Gershon references Heidegger, what did Heidegger write?

Martin Heidegger wrote that "technology begins as a tool, comes to feel like an extension, and then is only salient when it breaks down" [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 56]

# Do you think this is true, do you take it for granted?

# What is "Facebook official"?

[@Gershon2010b2d, p. 65]

# What are some examples of the way in which a medium affects the meaning?

* young people believe phones are okay for breakups, though old people are surprised [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 95]
* subjects attempt to interpret others' intentions by their media choices [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 107]
* you might understand someone in a particular medium, but not in another [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 117]
* a boyfriend refused to switch media because if they talk in person, they would not breakup, and he wanted to ensure the breakup was final [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 120]

# How does Facebook influence our personal disposition?

Facebook encouraged some to be anxious or jealous; the nuggets of information are like *potato chips*, tantalizing but not satisfying [@Gershon2010b2d, pp. 83-86]

# Do you agree?

# Exercise

Break into groups of 2/3, reintroduce yourselves and come up with 3 possible media, their features (e.g., hypermediated, immediate) and ideologies (e.g., intimate, professional).
