% Schein's Organizational Culture
% Joseph Reagle

# Introduction

Obviously, Schein is looking at culture from the organizational management point of view -- hence the focus on leadership. While the communities we look at our informal, his definitions of what constitutes culture are still useful and clear. Indeed, I hope that as we continue in the course you will continue to ask are we speaking of a genuine community with an actual culture?

# What is a group?

group
:   people with a shared history; predicated on the human need for stability and meaning. [@Schein2004ocl, p. 11, 27]

# What is a culture?

culture (1)
:   exhibit 1.1 +  ... in addition to above the word culture adds other critical elements: structural stability (shared, stable, and bound to identity), depth (deep and unconscious, most people are speaking of artifacts), breadth (pervasive), and patterning or integration (tie together all elements to satisfy meaning making need). [@Schein2004ocl, p. 13-14]
culture (2) 
:   "A pattern of shared basic assumptions that the group learned as it solved its problems of external adaptation and internal integration, that has worked well enough to be ... taught to new members."[@Schein2004ocl, p. 17]
culture (3)
:   "Culture as a set of basic assumptions defines for us what to pay attention to, what things mean, how to react emotionally to what is going on, and what actions to take in various kinds of situations." [@Schein2004ocl, p. 32]

# What are the levels of cultural analysis?

artifacts:
:   perceivable ("visible") social structures and processes (can hard to decipher) [@Schein2004ocl, p. 26]
espoused beliefs and values
:   strategies, goals, philosophies (espoused justifications) [@Schein2004ocl, p. 26]; can be "questioned, debated, challenged, and tested" [p. 28.]
underlying assumptions
:   unconscious, taken-for-granted beliefs, perceptions, thoughts, and feelings (alternate source of values and action) [@Schein2004ocl, p. 26]

* Not all assumptions are known, and people may even hold competing assumptions within themselves or the group.
* When assumptions/values are in conflict, people are forced to reconcile, often through espousing beliefs.
* There can be subcultures with culture, and cultural transference.

# Group exercise

Break into groups of 2-3 and break down what we've seen of *The Guild* according to artifact, espoused beliefs and values, and underlying assumptions.

# How does culture form?

By the group's adoption of behaviors predicated on the leaders' assumptions.

# How does culture change?

Change in leadership, membership, or stimuli that require reassessment.

# What is socialization?

socialization/acculturation
:   the adoption of a group's culture by newcomers.

# What would we consider lingo to be?

I think an artifact.

# What cultures do you exist in?

At work; in the classroom.

# Have you experienced change there, how did it change?

A new manager.

# Review exhibit 1.1 in context of South Park the The Guild

[Ask volunteers to read and consider.]
