% Secondary Info and the Public
% Joseph Reagle

#  Discussion

second-order information
:	"is not what is actually said but rather the background knowledge of the situation and expectations of communication that allows one to interpret the words." [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 123]

But ... ring tones are another type of second-order information. One girl spoke that she was glad she had not used a really good song for her ex-boyfriend [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 162]

# What messages do people send with their away messages?

women attempted to use second-order information to show they were independent and thriving regardless of heartbreak, whereas males ignored the breakup [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 128]

# What is meant when Gershon rights secondary-information in "undetermined"?

* a woman complains that people always thought the lyrics she posted and her away message were about her peers [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 130]
* the relationship category of "it's complicated" exemplifies how underdetermined relationship status information can be [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 134]

# Do we see gendered behavior?

...

# Have you ever spoken about your FB status -- rather than the relationship?

...

# How can we understand "creepy" in terms of 2nd-info?

students frequently use the word creepy to describe those who ineptly manage the information flow and the second order information associated with it[@Gershon2010b2d, p. 145]

# Is there an ethic to FB? (e.g., stalking, prompting jealousy, improving one's status)

* some people feel an obligation not to violate implicit norms associated with others' profiles [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 187]
* access to a shared password, a voicemail password, a log of text messages can be interpreted as a sign of intimacy [@Gershon2010b2d, p. 192]

# Have you ever been "wiped" or "dead to someone" on social media?

...

# What is public?

...

# How to understand media conventions?

1. message must stay in medium.
2. public message can go in a more public media; but not vice-versa.
3. message context is dependent on relationships.

